# Introduction
Breast cancer is the most diagnosed type of cancer in women in the United States. Although it affects men as well, the majority of the cases are reported from women. Globally, about 1 in every 8 women will have a very high probability of developing breast cancer at some stage in their lifetime. The type of breast cancer is determined by the specific cell affected. Most breast cancers are carcinomas which means that they originate  from the epithelial cell. While the rare sarcomas (occuring in <1%) start from the stromal cells of the breast. From published literature, machine learning methods such as random forest classifier has aided breast cancer diagnosing and prognosticating. Also other traditional machine learning methods that are focused on tree-based techniques have been extensively used in research in detecting breast malignancy.
The prime objective of the research was to develop a Machine Learning model that predicts whether a cell is malignant or benign based on the various characteristics of the cell nuclei. The study was aimed at analyzing the 32 attributes part of the Wisconsin breast cancer research dataset in order to choose a subset of attributes that gives the best model performance in terms of predicting the response variable which is the diagnosis column. Furthermore, another key goal of study was to create visuals to display the results in a presentable manner. The visuals were expected to present performance metrics for each of the models executed. 

